rspec-rails 4.0 release blog post (#143)
rspec/rspec.github.io: source/blog/2019-05-11-rspec-rails-4-0-has-been-released.md

---
title: RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released!
author: Benoit Tigeot, Jon Rowe and Phil Pirozhkov
---

RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released! Given our commitment to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), this is a major release and as such contains breaking changes. The major breaking change is that we've dropped support for Rails below 5, with only soft support for Rails 4.2.

As usual, if you notice any newly introduced bugs, please let us
know, and we'll release a fix for it ASAP.

RSpec continues to be a community-driven project with contributors
from all over the world. This release includes 258 commits and 56
merged pull requests from 27 different contributors!

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen!

## Notable Changes

> Support for Rails 6, support for testing ActionCable, ActiveMailbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for Rails 6, including support for testing ActionCable, ActiveMailbox.
```

  ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
end
```

### Silence log output with Puma

By default, Puma will no longer print logs when running system specs.

### Ability to manually turn off Active Record support

When using Rails without ActiveRecord or using an alternative ORM
or a database of choice, e.g. Sequel, ROM, Mongoid etc. We can
mistakenly detect ActiveRecord as being used due to other gems
autoloading the constants, we now support manually turning off
Active Record support when not configured with:
`config.use_active_record = false`

## Stats:

* **Total Commits**: 258
* **Merged pull requests**: 56
* **27 contributors**: Andrew White, Anton Rieder, Benoit Tigeot, Jon Rowe,
David Revelo, Giovanni Kock Bonetti, Ignatius Reza, James Dabbs, Joel AZEMAR,
John Hawthorn, Jonathan Rochkind, Kieran O'Grady, Moshe Kamensky,
OKURA Masafumi, Olle Jonsson, Pedro Paiva, Phil Pirozhkov, Penelope Phippen,
Seb Jacobs, Tanbir Hasan, Viacheslav Bobrov, Vladimir Dementyev, Xavier Shay,
alpaca-tc, pavel, ta1kt0me

## Docs

### API Docs

* [rspec-rails](/documentation/4.0/rspec-rails/)

### Cucumber Features

* [rspec-rails](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/4-0/)

## Release Notes

> ### 4.0.0 / 2020-03-24

Reviewer: I feel we should probably include `4.0.1` here now too :joy:

Author: Yep! :)

---
title: RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released!
author: Benoit Tigeot, Jon Rowe and Phil Pirozhkov
---

> RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released! Given our commitment to
> [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), we've been delaying the
> breaking changes until this update. One notable change is that
> we've dropped support for Rails below 4.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released! Given our commitment to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), this is a major release and as such contains breaking changes. The major breaking change is that we've dropped support for Rails below 5, with only soft support for Rails 4.2.
```

As usual, if you notice any newly introduced bugs, please let us
know, and we'll release a fix for it ASAP.

RSpec continues to be a community-driven project with contributors
from all over the world. This release includes 258 commits and 56
merged pull requests from 27 different contributors!

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen!

## Notable Changes

Support for Rails 6, support for testing ActionCable, ActiveMailbox.

### Breaking changes

RSpec Rails 4 supports only Rails 5 and 6. This is in line with our
new versioning policy which keeps major versions of RSpec Rails in

> lock step with versions of Rails.

Reviewer 2: s/lock step/lockstep/

This means that we no longer support versions of Ruby below 2.2
in line with the supported Ruby versions of Rails 5.

We have only restricted the version of Rails for this version

> allow a "soft support" for Rails 4.2 during this transitionary

Reviewer 2: s/allow a/allows a/

> allow a "soft support" for Rails 4.2 during this transitionary

Author: ```suggestion
 allows a "soft support" for Rails 4.2 during this transitionary
```

period but we strongly urge you to upgrade Rails to use 4.0.0.

### Removed version lock with RSpec gems

> The `rspec-rails` gem is no longer locked with the versioning of the other RSpec gems, we will now be releasing `rspec-rails` with each new major Rails release, keeping in lock step with their supported major versions.

Reviewer 2: s/lock step/lockstep/

> The `rspec-rails` gem is no longer locked with the versioning of the other RSpec gems, we will now be releasing `rspec-rails` with each new major Rails release, keeping in lock step with their supported major versions.

Author: ```suggestion
The `rspec-rails` gem is no longer locked with the versioning of the other RSpec gems, we will now be releasing `rspec-rails` with each new major Rails release, keeping in lockstep with their supported major versions.
```

### Improved JRuby support

We have improved JRuby support and RSpec Rails 4 fully supports JRuby on Rails 5 and 6.
### Support for Action Cable

We now support [channel specs][1] in order to easily test your Action Cable channels.  A `channel spec` pulls in `ActionCable::Channel::TestCase`, including all of the behavior and assertions that it provides, in addition to RSpec's own behavior and expectations.

### Support for Action Mailbox

Rails 6 came with [Action Mailbox][2]. We can now test them using
`:mailbox` flag.

```ruby
```

TODO: We do no have feature test for this...

### Improvements to generators

If you use generators, there is some improvements:
- The default hash syntax is now the Ruby 1.9 style in generated files to match Rails.
- Request specs are generated instead of controller specs by default
- New [generators][3] available (channel, generator, mailbox...)

### Allow configuring Active Job `queue_adapter` in system specs

Some people want to run Active Job with a specific queue adapter. In system
specs you can now choose your desired queue adapter:

```ruby
before do
  ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
end
```

### Silence log output with Puma

> By default Puma will no longer print logs when running system specs.

Reviewer 2: A comma after "By default".

> By default Puma will no longer print logs when running system specs.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, Puma will no longer print logs when running system specs.
```

RSpec continues to be a community-driven project with contributors
from all over the world. This release includes 258 commits and 56
merged pull requests from 27 different contributors!

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen!

## Notable Changes

RSpec Rails was release with full support and many improvements for 
Rails 6.

### Breaking changes

This version no longer support Ruby bellow 2.3. We soft support
Rails 4.2 but we encourage you to use rspec-rails with Rails 5
at least.

### JRuby support

We very happy to support JRuby on this new release. You can now use
`rspec-rails` with Rails 5.2 and 6 and JRuby.

### Support for Action Cable

Using a [channel spec][1] it will be easy to test your Action Cable
channels. A `channels spec` is a thin wrapper for an
`ActionCable::Channel::TestCase`, and includes all of the behavior
and assertions that it provides, in addition to RSpec's own 
behavior and expectations.

It also includes helpers from `ActionCable::Connection::TestCase`
to make it possible to test connection behavior.

### Support for Action Mailbox

Rails 6 came with [Action Mailbox][2]. We can now test them using
`:mailbox` flag.

```ruby
```

> TODO: We do no have feature test for this...

Author: I saw this. Do you think we should add feature tests for ActionMailbox?

Related: https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails/pull/1806/files

Reviewer: Yes, but we shouldn't have a todo here :joy:

Author: For me I added a ToDo because it was mandatory to release this documentation. Do you think it should not be mandatory?

Author: I will try to do this change tomorrow (install ActioMailbox on generated_app, write all feature tests, add basic documentation and link here)

### Improvements on generators

If you use generators, there is some improvements:
- No more Ruby 1.9 hash syntax in file generated
- Scaffold generator generates request specs instead of 
controller spec
- New [generators][3] available (channel, generator, mailbox...)

> ### Choose which Active Job `queue_adapteur` in system specs

Reviewer 3: typo: queue_adapteur

Author: https://github.com/rspec/rspec.github.io/pull/143/commits/938dddf06741caf2f1b2b403b6e4c1018bb202b1

Some people want to run Active Job with a specific queue. In system
specs you can now choose your desired queue:

```ruby
before do
  ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
end
```

> ### Silent log with Puma

Author: Feel free to ask or remove this kind of proposal. I do not want too add too many but I think is is important to have a detailed changelog.

Reviewer 2: Those Puma startup logs were very annoying, I would update just because of them being muted :D

---
title: RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released!
author: Benoit Tigeot, Jon Rowe and Phil Pirozhkov
---

RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released recently! Given our commitment to

> [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), this update comes with 

Reviewer 2: WDYT of:
"Given our commitment to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), we've been delaying the breaking changes until this update. One notable change is that we've dropped support for Rails below 4.2."

> breaking changes for people that are using Rails below 4.2. If we 

Reviewer 2: Maybe put this in a separate paragraph to emphasize that bugs aren't an integral part of the new release? :D

> As usual, if you notice any newly introduced bugs, please let us know, and we'll release a fix for it ASAP.

> RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released recently! Given our commitment to
> [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), this update comes with 
> breaking changes for people that are using Rails below 4.2. If we 
> did introduce any bugs, please let us know, and we'll get 
> a patch release out with a fix ASAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSpec Rails 4.0 has been released! Given our commitment to
[semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), this update comes with some
breaking changes for people that are using Rails below 5. If we 
did introduce any bugs, please let us know, and we'll get 
a patch release out with a fix ASAP.
```

RSpec continues to be a community-driven project with contributors
from all over the world. This release includes 258 commits and 56

> merged pull requests from 27 different contributors!

Reviewer 2: Github claims [there are 31](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails/compare/v3.9.1...v4.0.0), or even [34 contributors](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails/compare/v3.9.1...4-0-maintenance), but doesn't provide a list.

Reviewer: This stat is supposed to be automated from the rake task, so if its wrong it needs to be fixed in the task

Author: We use a git log command. If I do `git log v3.9.1...v4.0.0 | grep Author | sort | uniq`. But we have duplicated account with different emails. With the duplicated account we have 32.

```sh
$ git log v3.9.1...v4.0.0 | grep Author | sort | sed 's/ <.*//' | uniq | wc -l
27
```

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen!

## Notable Changes

> Support for Rails 6, support for testing ActionCable, ActiveMailbox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for Rails 6, support for testing ActionCable, ActiveMailbox.
```

### Breaking changes

RSpec Rails 4 supports only Rails 5 and 6. This is in line with our
new versioning policy which keeps major versions of RSpec Rails in 
lock step with versions of Rails.

This means that we no longer support versions of Ruby below 2.2
in line with the supported Ruby versions of Rails 5.

> We have not restricted the version of Rails/Ruby for this version to

Reviewer 2: [We do now](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails/pull/2338/files#diff-73c25cf975ccb4c89d8659202506c353R14), so probably the whole paragraph changes it meaning. Maybe something like:
"We soft-support Rails 4.2 providing a smoother upgrade path, but we highly recommend using RSpec Rails 4.0 with Rails 5.0 and up. If you decide to stick with Rails 4.2 for a while, it would be better to use RSpec Rails version 3".

Reviewer: I think your right but the point still stands and I'm happy with the rest of this paragraph
```suggestion
We have only restricted the version of Rails for this version
```

allow a "soft support" for Rails 4.2 during this transitionary
period but we strongly urge you to upgrade Rails to use 4.0.0.

### Improved JRuby support

> We are very happy to support JRuby on this new release. RSpec Rails 4
> supports JRuby with Rails 5.2 and 6.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have improved JRuby support and RSpec Rails 4 fully supports JRuby on Rails 5 and 6.
```

### Support for Action Cable

> Using a [channel spec][1] it will be easy to test your Action Cable
> channels. A `channels spec` is a thin wrapper for an
> `ActionCable::Channel::TestCase`, and includes all of the behavior
> and assertions that it provides, in addition to RSpec's own 
> behavior and expectations.
> 
> It also includes helpers from `ActionCable::Connection::TestCase`
> to make it possible to test connection behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now support [channel specs][1] in order to easily test your Action Cable channels.  A `channel spec` pulls in `ActionCable::Channel::TestCase`, including all of the behavior and assertions that it provides, in addition to RSpec's own behavior and expectations.
```

### Support for Action Mailbox

Rails 6 came with [Action Mailbox][2]. We can now test them using
`:mailbox` flag.

```ruby

> ```

Reviewer: A bit more detail here would be fantastic.

TODO: We do no have feature test for this...

> ### Improvements on generators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improvements to generators
```

If you use generators, there is some improvements:

> - No more Ruby 1.9 hash syntax in file generated

Reviewer 2: 1.9 is the new hash syntax, so this would better be "The new Ruby hash syntax is produced by all the generators".

Author: I applied the suggestion from Jon

> - Scaffold generator generates request specs instead of 

Reviewer 2: Also the controller generator.

> If you use generators, there is some improvements:
> - No more Ruby 1.9 hash syntax in file generated
> - Scaffold generator generates request specs instead of 
> controller spec
> - New [generators][3] available (channel, generator, mailbox...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use generators, there ds some improvements:
- The default hash syntax is now the Ruby 1.9 style in generated files to match Rails.
- Request specs are generated instead of controller specs by default
- New [generators][3] available (channel, generator, mailbox...)
```

> ### Choose which Active Job `queue_adapter` in system specs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Allow configuring Active Job `queue_adapter` in system specs
```

Some people want to run Active Job with a specific queue. In system

> specs you can now choose your desired queue:

Reviewer 2: Let's s/queue/queue adapter/ to avoid ambiguity.

```ruby
before do
  ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
end
```

> ### Silent log with Puma

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Silence log output with Puma
```

> By default Puma will not print starting logs anymore when you are
> running system specs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default Puma will no longer print logs when running system specs.
```

> ### Ability to disable Active Record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ability to manually turn off Active Record support
```

> Some people use Rails without database connection. They do not need

Reviewer 2: "... or using an alternative ORM or a database of choice, e.g. Sequel, ROM, Mongoid etc."

> Some people use Rails without database connection. They do not need
> `ActiveRecord`. You can now choose to disable it in your RSpec config:
> `config.use_active_record = false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Rails without ActiveRecord we can mistakenly detect ActiveRecord as being used due to other gems autoloading the constants, we now support manually turning off Active Record support when not configured with:
`config.use_active_record = false`
```

> ### Version sync between RSpec gems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removed version lock with RSpec gems
```

Reviewer: This should be much higher up, perhaps at the top.

> `rspec-rails` no longer follow the version of other RSpec gems, that
> means that `rspec-rails` will ask at least rspec-core, 
> rspec-expectations, rspec-mocks and rspec-support at version 3.9.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rspec-rails` gem is no longer locked with the versioning of the other RSpec gems, we will now be releasing `rspec-rails` with each new major Rails release, keeping in lock step with their supported major versions.
```

  `ActionView::Template#format`(Seb Jacobs, #2100)
* Replace `before_teardown` as well as `after_teardown` to ensure screenshots
  are generated correctly. (Jon Rowe, #2164)
* `ActionView::FixtureResolver#hash` has been renamed to `ActionView::FixtureResolver#data`.
  (Penelope Phippen, #2076)
* Prevent `driven_by(:selenium)` being called due to hook precedence.
  (Takumi Shotoku, #2188)
* Prevent a `WrongScopeError` being thrown during loading fixtures on Rails
  6.1 development version. (Edouard Chin, #2215)
* Fix Mocha mocking support with `should`. (Phil Pirozhkov, #2256)
* Restore previous conditional check for setting `default_url_options` in feature
  specs, prevents a `NoMethodError` in some scenarios. (Eugene Kenny, #2277)
* Allow changing `ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter` inside a system spec.
  (Jonathan Rochkind, #2242)
* `rails generate generator` command now creates related spec file (Joel Azemar, #2217)
* Relax upper `capybara` version constraint to allow for Capybara 3.x (Phil Pirozhkov, #2281)
* Clear ActionMailer test mailbox after each example (Benoit Tigeot, #2293)

Breaking Changes:

* Drops support for Rails below 5.0

> * Drops support for Ruby below 2.3

Reviewer 2: I'm confused while this RFC is not a part of some markdown file in the root of the repo. I tend to think it's "below 2.2".

Reviewer: Officially its now 2.2, we made a mistake about supported Ruby versions for Rails.
